# ROS_bootcamp
Repository that talks about all basic features of ROS as a part of the ROS
1. What is ROS, and its merits and limitations for robotics?
   ROS is an open source meta-operating system used to contro; robots. It provides operating system services, hardware abstraction,etc. It  Provides tools for obtaining, building,writing and running code across multiple computers. Ros is also similar to robot frameworks in some frameworks.

​         MERITS OF ROS:-

- Ros is general,ie. The same base code and knowledge can be applied to many different kinds of robots.

-  You can easily communicate between Python node and C++ node.This opens lots of possibilities of coworking

- You can control multiple robots with ROS. you can have many independent robots each with its own ROS system, and all robots can communicate with each other.

- In addition to the physical tool the software that goes with it is directly compatible with your ROS system

     LIMITATIONS OF ROS:-

- The serialization/deserialization code generated by make_library will automatically convert 64-bit floats into 32-bit datatypes, however, it should be noted that a loss of precision may occur!

- Arrays have similar limitations to strings, however, since there is no easy way to find the termination of an array (analogous to the \0 found at the end of a string), we need to specify the size of the array.

2. Explain in your own words the basic ROS terminology:

- Workspace: It is a folder in which you can create or modify existing catkin workspaces. it simplifies the build and installation process for your ROS packages.
- ROS package: A package might contain ROS nodes, a ROS-independent library, a dataset, configuration files, a third party piece of software, or anything else that logically constitutes a useful module.The goal of these packages is to provide this useful funtionality in an easy-to consume manner so that the software can be easily reused. 
- Nodes: A node is a process that performs computation. Nodes are combined together into a graph and communicated with one another using streaming topics, RPC services, And the parameter Server.
- Topics: Topics are named buses over which nodes exchange messages. Topics have anonymus publish/subscribe semantics, which decouples the production of information from its consumption. In general nodes are not aware of who they are communicating with.
- Messages: Nodes communicate with each other by publishing messges to topics. A message is a simple data structure comprising typed fields.
- Services: The publish/ subscribe model is a very flexible communication paradigm, but its many-to-many one way transport is not appropriate for RPC request/ reply interactions, which are often required in a distributed system. Request/ reply is done via a service, which is defined by a pair of messages : one for the request one for the reply.
